Original:
An unnamed CIA agent, the "Protagonist", participates in an undercover operation at a Kyiv opera house. He is aided by a masked soldier with a distinctive trinket, who appears to "un-fire" a bullet through a hostile gunman. After rescuing an exposed spy and seizing a strange artifact, the Protagonist is captured by Russian mercenaries. He endures torture via tooth pulling before consuming a cyanide pill. He awakens to learn the pill was a test of his loyalty; his team has been killed and the artifact lost. The Protagonist learns that he is now employed by a secret organization called Tenet, whose mission involves the human race's survival. He is directed to Barbara, a scientist studying bullets with "inverted" entropy which allows them to move backwards through time. She believes they are manufactured in the future, and there exists a weapon that can wipe out the past. The Protagonist traces the bullet cartridges to Mumbai-based arms dealer Priya Singh. Assisted by a local contact named Neil, he confronts Priya, who turns out to be a member of Tenet. Her cartridges were purchased and inverted by Andrei Sator, a Russian oligarch originating from Stalsk-12, a former Soviet closed city, and who can apparently communicate with the future. The Protagonist approaches Sator's estranged wife Kat, an art appraiser who unknowingly sold Sator a forged Goya drawing. Kat reveals that Sator uses the drawing to keep her under his control. To enlist Kat's help, the Protagonist plots to steal the drawing from Freeport, a facility within Oslo Airport. Inside Freeport, they find a machine (later referred to as "Turnstile") from which two masked men emerge; the inverted one attacks the Protagonist, while Neil chases after the normal one, whom he manages to unmask. Neil prevents the Protagonist from killing the inverted man, adding that he "took care" of the other one. Priya explains that Turnstile is developed in the future and can invert the entropy of objects and people, and that the two masked men were the same person. In the Amalfi Coast, believing the drawing was destroyed, Kat introduces the Protagonist to Sator, only to learn later that the drawing is still intact. The three go boating and Kat attempts to drown Sator, but the Protagonist saves him. Posing as a freelancer, he offers to help Sator retrieve a case of Plutonium-241. In Tallinn, the Protagonist and Neil ambush an armoured convoy and steal the "Plutonium," which is actually the artifact lost in the botched Kyiv opera house siege. His escape is compromised by two vehicles driven by inverted individuals, one of which is Sator, who holds Kat hostage. The Protagonist gives Sator an empty case. Sator retreats, leaving Kat in the speeding vehicle. After saving her, the Protagonist is captured and taken to Sator's warehouse containing another Turnstile. In a confusing interrogation, an inverted Sator (who shoots Kat with an inverted round) and a normal one demand the location of the artifact, about which the Protagonist lies. Just then, a team of Tenet operatives led by Ives arrive in an ambush and comes to the Protagonist's aid while Sator escapes. The Protagonist, Neil, Ives and his operatives take the mortally wounded Kat through Sator's Turnstile to invert her whole self, reversing the effect of the round. He returns to the ambush site and chases after Sator. His vehicle is overturned and Sator sets it on fire. He is saved by Ives' team again. Neil reveals that he has secretly been a member of Tenet from the beginning. They travel back to Freeport a week earlier. There, the Protagonist fights his past self before reaching the Turnstile and un-inverts himself. Neil takes Kat through the Turnstile which un-inverts both of them.
Generation:
 He reveals that he was once a member of the
Full Text:
An unnamed CIA agent, the "Protagonist", participates in an undercover operation at a Kyiv opera house. He is aided by a masked soldier with a distinctive trinket, who appears to "un-fire" a bullet through a hostile gunman. After rescuing an exposed spy and seizing a strange artifact, the Protagonist is captured by Russian mercenaries. He endures torture via tooth pulling before consuming a cyanide pill. He awakens to learn the pill was a test of his loyalty; his team has been killed and the artifact lost. The Protagonist learns that he is now employed by a secret organization called Tenet, whose mission involves the human race's survival. He is directed to Barbara, a scientist studying bullets with "inverted" entropy which allows them to move backwards through time. She believes they are manufactured in the future, and there exists a weapon that can wipe out the past. The Protagonist traces the bullet cartridges to Mumbai-based arms dealer Priya Singh. Assisted by a local contact named Neil, he confronts Priya, who turns out to be a member of Tenet. Her cartridges were purchased and inverted by Andrei Sator, a Russian oligarch originating from Stalsk-12, a former Soviet closed city, and who can apparently communicate with the future. The Protagonist approaches Sator's estranged wife Kat, an art appraiser who unknowingly sold Sator a forged Goya drawing. Kat reveals that Sator uses the drawing to keep her under his control. To enlist Kat's help, the Protagonist plots to steal the drawing from Freeport, a facility within Oslo Airport. Inside Freeport, they find a machine (later referred to as "Turnstile") from which two masked men emerge; the inverted one attacks the Protagonist, while Neil chases after the normal one, whom he manages to unmask. Neil prevents the Protagonist from killing the inverted man, adding that he "took care" of the other one. Priya explains that Turnstile is developed in the future and can invert the entropy of objects and people, and that the two masked men were the same person. In the Amalfi Coast, believing the drawing was destroyed, Kat introduces the Protagonist to Sator, only to learn later that the drawing is still intact. The three go boating and Kat attempts to drown Sator, but the Protagonist saves him. Posing as a freelancer, he offers to help Sator retrieve a case of Plutonium-241. In Tallinn, the Protagonist and Neil ambush an armoured convoy and steal the "Plutonium," which is actually the artifact lost in the botched Kyiv opera house siege. His escape is compromised by two vehicles driven by inverted individuals, one of which is Sator, who holds Kat hostage. The Protagonist gives Sator an empty case. Sator retreats, leaving Kat in the speeding vehicle. After saving her, the Protagonist is captured and taken to Sator's warehouse containing another Turnstile. In a confusing interrogation, an inverted Sator (who shoots Kat with an inverted round) and a normal one demand the location of the artifact, about which the Protagonist lies. Just then, a team of Tenet operatives led by Ives arrive in an ambush and comes to the Protagonist's aid while Sator escapes. The Protagonist, Neil, Ives and his operatives take the mortally wounded Kat through Sator's Turnstile to invert her whole self, reversing the effect of the round. He returns to the ambush site and chases after Sator. His vehicle is overturned and Sator sets it on fire. He is saved by Ives' team again. Neil reveals that he has secretly been a member of Tenet from the beginning. They travel back to Freeport a week earlier. There, the Protagonist fights his past self before reaching the Turnstile and un-inverts himself. Neil takes Kat through the Turnstile which un-inverts both of them. He reveals that he was once a member of the
